---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Do More
date: 2018-12-27T11:54:58.336Z
description: In which I get hyped on David Goggins
tags:
  - running
  - david goggins
  - motivation
---
Yesterday night I couldn't sleep, and ended up listening to an episode of the Joe Rogan podcast with a guy called [David Goggins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tSTk1083VY). Motivational LA stuff. He likes to shout "STAY HARD!" a lot. 

I took a long time to get to sleep.

When I woke up I was super hungry and pretty tired, but some of Goggins' motivation stuck with me. He's super big on never ever quitting. I've been putting off going for my first run in ages for a few days.

It was gorgeous out. Crisp and foggy, lit up by sunshine that hadn't quite emerged. I got up and walked out and promised I'd run for 30 minutes without stopping. 

And the first 5 minutes were kind of hard, but the next 25 breezed past. And as I hit 30 I changed to a walk and all the endorphins hit me like a drug. It was the best I've felt in ages.

Now I'm alive instead of daydreaming. On a morning when I had all my usual reasons to cosy up and watch TV, or something equally potato-y. I didn't sleep great, but I feel fine. I didn't eat till 11, but it didn't affect me.

I now have a long list of stuff I want to do to hold myself more accountable. Exercise is so rewarding, but I'm usually way too short sighted to invest in it.

Goggins talks a lot about a quitting mentality. The voice in your head that says it's too hard, it hurts too much, you've hit your limit. When you feel yourself wanting to quit, recognise that voice in your head. Take note of what made it pop up and treat it as an opportunity to make your mind hard, or, as he puts it, "get calluses on your fucking brain". If you push through, then you will have always pushed through. Your mind just got a bit stronger. You just got less likely to quit.

Over time that mental muscle toughens, until you become the person who squeezes twice as much out of themselves as anyone else.

It made me realise I could probably run a marathon today if I wanted to. However slow, if I just don't stop jogging and ignore the pain I'm pretty sure I could do it. The awesome thing is, once you do it, you've done it. It sounds stupidly obvious, but then forever you've become the kind of person who runs marathons. And then you dream bigger.

Perhaps all that motivational crap isn't so silly after all.

